..
   SPDX-FileCopyrightText: © 2020 Open Networking Foundation <support@opennetworking.org>
   SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0

SD-Core 1.2 Release
===================

1.2.0 Release Details
---------------------

SD-Core supports 4G & 5G network functions. SD-Core provides APIs for configuration, telemetry,
policy management. Access networks can connect to AMF or MME depending on the type of access used.
Below is the summary of the features delivered in SD-Core 1.2 Release.


Highlights
----------
Release 1.2.0 is focused towards releasing the first version of Cloud Native 5G Network Functions.
All development done in this release is around 5G Network functions. Below is highlighted features
of this release,


**NRF Keepalive**: All 5G network functions now register with NRF and enable the keep alive feature.
Each network function periodically updates its subscriptions towards NRF. NRF now removes the
Network Function which fails to send keepalive for a configured number of seconds. This is one of
the foundation features for running multiple instances of Network functions.

**Multiple SMF Instances**: Aether can be deployed with multiple instances of SMF. If required manually
SMF deployment can be scaled out to add more instances or deployment can be scaled in to reduce the
number of SMF instances. A new kubernetes POD UPF Adapter pod  is deployed as an anchor POD. UPF adapter
POD talks to UPF NF. All SMF instances share the resources like SEID, IP address, TEID. SMF now stores
subscriber states in MongoDB.

**Multiple AMF Instances**: Aether can be deployed with multiple AMF instances of AMF. If required
manually AMF deployment can be scaled out to add more instances or AMF deployment can be scaled in
to reduce the number of AMF instances. A new kubernetes POD SCTP-LB is added to terminate sctp
connections from gNB.  All AMF instances share the resources pool like TMSI, AMF-NGAPId. SMF now
stores subscriber states in MongoDB.

**gNBSim Improvements**: Couple of exciting changes are available in gNBSim now. Notable changes
include following features,

         - gNBSim now supports custom profiles. User can define set of procedures to be executed
           for given use
         - All the subscribers within a profile can run in parallel. Same way if multiple profiles
           are configured then all profiles can run in parallel. These features are important to
           make multiple parallel transactions in the core network.
         - User defined delay between the procedures of the custom profile.
         - Step profile is introduced which helps execute one procedure at a time and wait for
           users to call APIs to trigger the next procedure for the Users. This is a really
           interesting feature for the developers who want more control on their test case execution.

**Documentation improvements**: SD-Core documentation is updated with clear separation of 4G/5G
documentation wherever it was needed. Also updated documentation around deployment of 5G,
new PODs and their resource requirements. Some of the new sections have been added to explain
QoS support, application filtering and upf configuration. Also a process has started to move
most of the internal design documents to the google drive which can be accessed by any community
member. Link for the SD-Core public document can be found here.

**Minor Improvements**: There are couple of enhancements which were done in multiple network functions

        - SMF supports UPF based UE address allocation: SMF need not manage UE address pool now, if
          UPF supports UE address allocation.
        - Helm Chart changes to run MongoDB in the cluster mode to give database redundancy in the
          5G Core Network.
        - Image size reduction- gNBSim, simapp now has a small container image size.
        - Dockerfile cleanup - Multiple Dockerfile are cleaned to follow best practices and to
          update the base images of compile time & run time images.
        - Subscriber config & slice config APIs in the simapp now supports http2.
        - Network Functions now handle error in grpc connection towards webconsole
        - SMF now sends correct QFI towards UPF instead of 5QI
        - Dockerfile improvements to use recent golang version and latest runtime alpine image
        - Purge UE api now available in the AMF
        - Fixing QoS issues by sending correct AMBR rates towards UE

Known Issues and Limitations
----------------------------

    - Only one instance of UPF-adapter pod should be deployed
    - Only one instance of SCTP-Lb pod should be deployed
    - If webui pod is restarted and if callback configuration is not provided in webui pod
      then simapp does not download the config again to webui. Restarting the simapp pod
      solves the problem most of the time.
    - UPF Pod needs to have UE pool configuration and UPF does not use UE IP Pool
      configuration from Slice APIs
    - The same IMSI cannot part of multiple device groups
    - At most 5 application filtering rules can be added per Slice
    - If a subscriber is attached to a Network Slice then subsequent application filter rules modify/deletion is
      not notified towards UE & UPF. If UE disconnects and reconnects back to Network Slice then updated
      application filters are applied to UE.
    - If No Filtering Rules are configured then only Default(Allow-All) Filter rule is added implicitly.
    - PLMN update for Slice does not work. It is recommended to delete the slice and recreate it again with
      correct PLMN.

.. note::
    For any 3gpp release compliance refer - (:ref:`4g-compliance`) and (:ref:`5g-compliance`)

Component Versions in the 1.2.0 Release
---------------------------------------

Helm Chart Versions and their component charts and containers:

* sdcore-helm-chart: ``0.11.14``
    * omec-control-plane: ``0.11.1``
        * hssdb: ``omecproject/c3po-hssdb:master-df54425``
        * hss  : ``omecproject/c3po-hss:master-df54425``
        * pcrf  : ``omecproject/c3po-pcrf:pcrf-d58dd1c``
        * pcrfdb  : ``omecproject/c3po-pcrf:pcrf-d58dd1c``
        * config4g  : ``omecproject/5gc-webui:master-87adbcc``
        * spgwc  : ``omecproject/spgw:master-e419062``
        * mme  : ``omecproject/nucleus:master-a8002eb``

    * omec-sub-provision: ``0.5.3``
        * simapp: ``omecproject/simapp:main-a4f741a``

    * 5g-control-plane: ``0.7.15``
        * amf: ``romecproject/5gc-amf:master-af1c9f1``
        * nrf: ``omecproject/5gc-nrf:master-4313faa``
        * smf: ``omecproject/5gc-smf:master-d94b123``
        * ausf: ``omecproject/5gc-ausf:master-c84dff4``
        * nssf: ``omecproject/5gc-nssf:master-4e5aef3``
        * pcf: ``omecproject/5gc-pcf:master-bcbdeb0``
        * udr: ``omecproject/5gc-udr:master-35eb7b7``
        * udm: ``omecproject/5gc-udm:master-a0f0671``
        * webui: ``omecproject/5gc-webui:master-fec9bfc``
        * sctplb: ``omecproject/sctplb:master-bf081d5``
        * upfadapter: ``omecproject/5gc-smf:master-d7c32f2``

   * bess-upf ``0.1.0``
        * bess: ``omecproject/upf-epc-bess:master-5786085``
        * pfcpiface: ``omecproject/upf-epc-pfcpiface:master-5786085``

    * 5g-ran-sim ``0.5.9``
        * gnbsim: ``omecproject/5gc-gnbsim:main-0e4b557``
