..
   SPDX-FileCopyrightText: © 2024 Intel Corporation
   SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0

SD-Core 1.4 Release
===================

1.4.0 Release Details
---------------------

SD-Core supports 4G & 5G network functions and includes APIs for configuration,
telemetry, policy management. Access networks can connect to Access & Mobility
Management Function (AMF) or Mobility Management Entity (MME) depending on the
type of access used. Below is the summary of the features delivered in SD-Core
1.4 Release.

Highlights
----------

Release v1.4.0 focuses on improving the source code, improve the CI/CD pipeline,
bug fixes, and several improvements in the UPF. All new functionality in this
release contributes to better support of 5G Network functionality.

**Go version**: Code-base was updated to use Go 1.21.

**Linters**: Enable multiple linters and enforce them to check Go code.
Additionally, enable linter for Dockerfile (hadolint) and linters for other
components.

**CI/CD pipeline**: GitHub Actions were enabled in all of the sd-core 5G
components. Moreover, `Dependabot` was added to help manage dependency and
security updates.

**Docker images**: Full refactoring of Dockerfile to obtain the smallest
possible size for the resulting Docker image.

**Consolidated repositories**: Multiple small/tiny repositories were
consolidated into the `util` repository such that the whole 5G sd-core is
composed of as few as possible repositories.

**Webui**: Improvements in this module include:
- Add GET operations for DeviceGroups and Network Slices.
- Storing configuration in mongodb (separate database collection for
configuration).
- Recovering configuration in case `webui` crashes.
- Port for the `webui` is now configurable for all NFs (it was hard-coded before)

**Sctp-Lb**: Full refactoring of SCTPLB code and its Docker image (size
decreased from ~1.2GB to 21.2MB)

**Config 5G**: When deploying SD-Core, all services using this client code go
into a tight loop using 100% of a CPU thread until webui is available and
configured with a network slice. This issue was resolved by adding some small
sleeps that will free up some CPU time. The worst case scenario with this sleep
is that the service will take 5 seconds more to get configured after initial
deployment.

**gNBSim**: Several improvements were added to this component, including:
- Add support for retransmit message
- Add support for statistics at procedure level and transaction level
- Add E2E latency measurements
- Add support for Temporary Mobile Subscriber Identity (TMSI)

**UPF**: The UPF was the component that has the most feature additions among all
of the SD-Core components. Among the most relevant changes are:
- Add GTPu path measurement/monitoring as specified in 3GPP TS 23.501
(Release 16).
- Enable CNDP (Cloud Native Data Plane) as another mode of operation.
- Make `BESS` to use a newer version of DPDK (i.e., DPDK-22.11).
- Use `JSONC` format for the UPF's configuration instead of JSON to be able to
add comments to configuration file.
- Mark GTP (IP) packets with the same DSCP value as the inner IP packet.
- Fix issue with GTP Echo response.
- Improve documentation to deploy UPF in modes (AF_PACKET, AF_XDP, CNDP, DPDK).
- Refactor route-control script to reduce complexity and to improve readability,
logging, error handling, and threading.

**UPF (Helm Charts)**: Helm Charts for the UPF got moved from the
`sdfabric-helm-charts` umbrella into the `sdcore-helm-charts` umbrella.

.. note::
    For any 3gpp release compliance refer - (:ref:`4g-compliance`) and (:ref:`5g-compliance`)

Component Versions in the 1.4.0 Release
---------------------------------------

Helm Chart Versions and their component charts and containers:

* sdcore-helm-chart: ``0.12.8``
    * omec-control-plane: ``0.12.0``
        * hssdb: ``omecproject/c3po-hssdb:master-df54425``
        * hss  : ``omecproject/c3po-hss:master-df54425``
        * pcrf  : ``omecproject/c3po-pcrf:pcrf-d58dd1c``
        * pcrfdb  : ``omecproject/c3po-pcrf:pcrf-d58dd1c``
        * config4g  : ``omecproject/5gc-webui:master-1121545``
        * spgwc  : ``omecproject/spgw:master-e419062``
        * mme  : ``omecproject/nucleus:master-a8002eb``

    * omec-sub-provision: ``1.0.0``
        * simapp: ``omecproject/simapp:rel-1.4.0``

    * 5g-control-plane: ``1.0.0``
        * amf: ``omecproject/5gc-amf:rel-1.4.0``
        * nrf: ``omecproject/5gc-nrf:rel-1.4.0``
        * smf: ``omecproject/5gc-smf:rel-1.4.0``
        * ausf: ``omecproject/5gc-ausf:rel-1.4.0``
        * nssf: ``omecproject/5gc-nssf:rel-1.4.0``
        * pcf: ``omecproject/5gc-pcf:rel-1.4.0``
        * udr: ``omecproject/5gc-udr:rel-1.4.0``
        * udm: ``omecproject/5gc-udm:rel-1.4.0``
        * webui: ``omecproject/5gc-webui:rel-1.4.0``
        * sctplb: ``omecproject/sctplb:rel-1.4.0``
        * metricfunc: ``omecproject/metricfunc:rel-1.4.0``
        * upfadapter: ``omecproject/5gc-smf:rel-1.4.0``

   * bess-upf ``1.0.0``
        * bess: ``omecproject/upf-epc-bess:rel-1.4.0``
        * pfcpiface: ``omecproject/upf-epc-pfcpiface:rel-1.4.0``

    * 5g-ran-sim ``1.0.0``
        * gnbsim: ``omecproject/5gc-gnbsim:rel-1.4.0``
